# Statistics_FaceMaskStudy
Daily-life conversation relies heavily on our speech perception. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, interactions with talkers wearing face masks have become part of our daily routine. Prior to the COVID-19, mask-wearing was limited to healthcare workers in western countries and people often possess negative attitudes toward face masks. In contrary, mask-wearing has been prevalent in earlier times in East Asia countries, such as China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan etc. According to Jaehwan Hyun et al. 2022, masked societies in East Asia have their history and meaning. It establishes a common account by the symbolic attachment of politeness , Wu Lien-teh’s work against the Manchurian plague, SARS epidemic etc. It is said that face-mask wearing in East Asia is an integral part of life on the basis of cultural and scientific development.

Though face masks show advantages of preventing diseases to be spread, there are also several disadvantages of wearing masks. Apart from a certain discomfort and minor potential health risks of long-term wearing (e.g., de novo headaches; Ramirez-Moreno JM et al. 2021), mask wearing strongly interfere with communication. For example, the attenuation of sound energy and loss of visual cues and facial expression (Moon, I.-J. et al. 2022; Sönnichsen et al.2022). According to the previous research, there was a large improvement in speech perception of the normal-hearing subjects when visual cues provided by the mouth region were available, especially in noisy environments (Sönnichsen et al.2022). Furthermore, in accordance with previous findings a similar reduction in mid- and high frequency sound levels could be detected (Goldin A et al. 2020; Corey RM et al. 2020; Pörschmann C et al. 2020). Interestingly some studies even reported that consonants require a much more precise articulatory configuration than vowels (Flege et al. 1988; McFarland and Baum 1995), whcich means that acoustic realization of fricatives in particular seems to be disproportionately impacted. With face mask, the researchers described an average of 20% to 31% intelligibility loss depending on the types of the masks according to studies. (Sönnichsen et al.2022)

It should be noted that the topics about cross-cultural perspectives of speech perception experiments on face mask are relatively new and literature on this topic are rare. However, given the investigation of different mask wearing cultures in West and East and the scientific evidences about speech perception, it is therefore of current interest to explore how different cultures, referred to as habits of mask wearing in this study, affect people’s sensibility of speech perception.
